Framework - A common structure for developer application so that developers dont have to develop from scretch.

Php uses MVC (Model View Controller) architecture.
Model - Manages data and business logic
View - Handles layout and display
Controller - Routes commands to the model and view parts. Acts as an interface between view and models.

Composer - Is a dependency manager for PhP.
		   It is similar to NPM in Node.
		   Can be used to update the project and the framework.
		   Instances where composer is used: To pdf generator, inject JQuery, JWT tijen generation.
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LARAVEL AND (ANGULAR, REACT , ETC)
-laravel is a aserver-side framewwork while angular etc are client side framewwork
-You can not make a single-page app directly
-It can connect with db
-Angular etc cant connect with db directly
-Angular etc need api
-Angular etc need a backend framewwork

Routing - Means mapping specific page with a specific URL.

blade -blade template is a template engine that can convert simple text to php
       templating feature provided by laravel. ALso provides laravel features such as no need of use of tags.
       eg:
            <?php ?> ---> in PhP
            {{}}     ----> in blade template

Controller - all the logical programming is done here.

Component - a piece of code that can be re-used. Its almost similar to functions only that functions have some limitations
    eg a Component can be used in header or footer.

Middleware - type of code that can filter out users request. eg login... if user is logged in, he can access the website else he/she cant access the website.
    Types of Middleware:
        1. Global Middleware - Applied at a complete website on a single time
        2. Groupped Middleware -  Applied at specific pages eg 20 pages
        3. Routed Middleware - Applied ata a single route at a time

DATABASE
-Check .env file for the database configurations so as to edit accordingly
- the settings are consumed by congig\database.php

Models
A model should match with table name. and Should be in singular tense
eg
Model       Table
User        Users

Http Client - allows you to make outgoing HTTP Requests with web other applications through the api

Sessions - used for storing the data on the server side. The data is stored permanently unless deleted
            - can be used to store username and password.

Flash Session - used for storing the data on the server side. The data is stored tempolarily... i.e. after refresh, the data is lost.
                - can be used to store confirmation message.

Localization - Putting a language in different languages.

Pagination- showing only chunks/portions of data... ie. when the db has a record containing 1000 rows, we can paginate and show 10 rows per page

Aggregate Query - Are database functions that provide mathematical calculations on the database eg. sum, max, min, average.

Join - fetching data from two tables which are inter-related i.e if both tables have IDs.

Migrations - create table in the php code the it will automatically create a database table that matches the code.
        Benefit ->  enables version controll when there are different users working on different desktop pcs

Migration defines the table structure and not the table data
